Minor clean-up and more intro (#58)
radiantearth/stac-api-spec: api-spec.md

thus are compliant with both OAFeat Collections and STAC Collections and are returned from the `/collections/{collection_id}` 
endpoint.

In OAFeat Features are the individual records within a Collection and are usually provided in GeoJSON format. 
[STAC Items](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/item-spec/README.md) are compliant with the OAFeat Features [GeoJSON
requirements class](http://docs.ogc.org/is/17-069r3/17-069r3.html#_requirements_class_geojson),  and are returned from the 

> `/collections/{collection_id}/items/{item_id}` endpoint. The return of other encodings 

Reviewer: The new conformance classes would require rewriting a lot of text here anyway and I actually think this sentence here wasn't really true anyway in the past.  AFAIK there are some APIs not implementing OAFeat at all, just having /search...

> `/collections/{collection_id}/items/{item_id}` endpoint. The return of other encodings 

Author: Ah, yeah - I wrote that before I had dug deep into the geojson requirements class. Will try to remember to rewrite this for the confromance PR.

> `/collections/{collection_id}/items/{item_id}` endpoint. The return of other encodings 

Author: @matthewhanson - can you remove your request changes? I think I got the minor ones, and the bigger core compliance things I will do in the other PR - this one is now just about some cleaner text.

([html](http://docs.ogc.org/is/17-069r3/17-069r3.html#rc_html), [gml](http://docs.ogc.org/is/17-069r3/17-069r3.html#rc_gmlsf0))
is outside the scope of STAC API, as the [STAC Item](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md) is
specified in GeoJSON.

A typical OAFeat will have multiple collections, and each will just offer simple search for its particular collection at 
`GET /collections/{collectionId}/items`.
The main STAC endpoint specified beyond what OAFeat offers is `/search`, which offers cross-collection search. A primary
use case of STAC is to search diverse imagery collections (like Landsat, Sentinel, MODIS) by location and cloud cover for any

> relevant image. So the ability to do searches across Collections is very important, and is not yet specified by OAFeat. Due to the 

Author: They have identified it as future work (in https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-features/issues/451), and reference it in Filter/CQL - http://docs.opengeospatial.org/DRAFTS/19-079.html#filter-param-multiple-collections

> relevant image. So the ability to do searches across Collections is very important, and is not yet specified by OAFeat. Due to the 

Author: ```suggestion
matching item. So the ability to do searches across Collections is very important, and is not yet specified by OAFeat. Due to the 
```

limited parameter support in OGC API - Features, it is recommended to use the STAC API endpoint 

> `POST /search` for advanced queries, as it supports richer options.

Author: There's some chance I caught this in the CQL PR? With CQL POST is no richer than GET, they are equivalent query languages, while I think for STAC it had some more?

where the collection ID in the path is equivalent to providing that single value in the `collections` query parameter in 
STAC API.

> ### STAC API Compliance

Reviewer: How to expose only STAC Collections in an API?

Author: I'm open on what exactly we do here, was just trying to capture what was in the PR.

My thinking was that a Collection only endpoint is actually _not_ a STAC API. In my mind a STAC API is when you provide 'search'. OpenEO is a compliant STAC catalog, as is https://storage.googleapis.com/pdd-stac/disasters-0.9.0/catalog.json And I'd see implementations that are servers (RESTful API's) that only implement STAC core, and don't offer search/ or collections/items/ endpoints.

I think I agree with your point about RESTful, with no specific endpoints required, but we should be able to still specify functionality required in some way? Is OGC Features API RESTful?

Reviewer: > OpenEO is a compliant STAC catalog, as is https://storage.googleapis.com/pdd-stac/disasters-0.9.0/catalog.json

Unfortunately, it is not. We use the data rel type instead of child as it is specified in STAC API. So it's actually not a valid STAC catalog... And then /collections is also not valid STA, it's only valid in STAC API.

> I think I agree with your point about RESTful, with no specific endpoints required, but we should be able to still specify functionality required in some way?

Why would that be required? If we have conformance classes anyway, couldn't we just specify what is implemented there or just follow links? I'm not sure myself yet, but I don't like that it's obviously getting towards just STAC API for Items and it seems I need to come up with my own STAC API spec for Collections.

Author: Ah, that's interesting on using data rel type instead of child, I'd thought they were child. I do think that's a confusing little area.

I'm not set on not having STAC API just for items, just saying that was more of my mental model. That everyone should implement STAC Core, and that you layer on Features API / Search endpoint for filtering items. And the latter is 'STAC API'. 

But for beta.1 I prefer to not rock the boat - mostly just want to align with CQL / Transactions, clean things up, and get something for people to work with. I definitely see a beta.2, and I think the recommendations for how to implement STAC catalogs / collections is core to figure out, and this to me fits in. I think the conformance classes are probably the way to go. And I'm not set on my mental model, I can see value in having 'STAC API' specify how to implement Collections / Catalogs without search. But I also like that STAC Core *can* be implemented by a dynamic server, but that we don't need to specify that.

> Anyway, we can't represent all static STACs in the API it seems...

What does this mean?

Reviewer: > Ah, that's interesting on using data rel type instead of child, I'd thought they were child. I do think that's a confusing little area.

It makes sense, because it returns you a different JSON. Not a collection/catalog, but the response of /collections, which contains collections and links. /collections then lists the "children" instead of adding (in our case) 450+ links to the links in the landing page. It's just that this is not specified in STAC itself, but only in API (originating from Features). 

> I think the conformance classes are probably the way to go

Agreed, see #27.

> I can see value in having 'STAC API' specify how to implement Collections / Catalogs without search.

Actually, I'd rather say we should have collection search at some point and then there might be no "without search" anylonger.

> > Anyway, we can't represent all static STACs in the API it seems...
> 
> What does this mean?

If we merge this PR, you need Items in collections/catalogs, otherwise the API is not compliant although it's a valid STAC.

Author: Ok, cool. Now I understand. Thanks.

> Actually, I'd rather say we should have collection search at some point and then there might be no "without search" any longer.

I like that. And I think records is actually getting close to a draft, so perhaps we could try to put that in for beta.2.

I think I'll cut this PR down to just be the intro text, and then aim to do #42 with #27. Have a branch started now, will push when it's to a decent point.

Reviewer 2: Catching up, think this all was largely resolved in Monday's discussion.

However, regarding @m-mohr statement about not adding child links to root catalog when you have too many collections....do we have another open discussion on this?  In stac-cmr there are a few providers that have more than 1000 collections, and currently they are all added to the root endpoint, e.g., https://cmr.uat.earthdata.nasa.gov/stac/GES_DISC

Reviewer: Hmm, my statement about adding child links to root is a bit biased by openEO and is also weakened by the discussion on Monday. I don't think there's a major issue with your implementation. child links at the landing page are fine, BUT I'd recommend to put them in /collections and link to it with rel type data if OAFeat is implemented anyway. Also, in an API that is not necessarily only STAC (as openEO is), it would bloat the initial request with data that is not required at that stage and thus connection times can slow down. In an API just covering STAC, I'd find it's not a major problem as it's the primary goal/content of the API.

Reviewer: I think I'd just remove the whole new chapter for now, merge this and then write-up the conformance classes. Those will basically change the whole chapter anyway.

Reviewer 2: My main interest is in having the API browsable by STAC browser, so I think that will need an update to respect the `data` rel type link.

Author: Yes, that was my plan - remove the whole chapter on compliance, and then redo it with the conformance PR.

Reviewer: @matthewhanson I implemented the data rel type some days ago into STAC Browser: https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-browser/pull/59 Already live on stacindex.org...
